So.
Who digested and marinated on the subject yesterday, and had any sort of questions or comments they wanted to share.
On. Everything that we learned yesterday was pretty dense, as we promised.
Today will be less dense.
A lot more application.
Does anyone want to share anything they learned?
I had a quick question.
When. So it's starting to put my list together for folks I want to reach out to. I was just thinking, like, what's the best way to ask them. So.
Is it good to make clear that this is not a.
You know me selling you call. This is just.
To get customer research. Do you guys have.
Templates that you've used for email, outreach or best practices for.
Reaching out.
I think we can get some some templates for you, like maybe a few examples from some previous companies. And what people say. Now that's something. We can make a note, Liliana, to to pull together.
Nothing in particular, because these are fairly smooth, and that all you need to do is just be honest with them about what you're trying to do, and.
Also be complementary, you know. You're you're trying to get to know them because.
You want to find more people like them.
Right. So a lot of the times people really appreciate like just authentic.
Expression in that regard, so.
So long as you keep it real and you give it your own voice it'll it'll be fine, but we'll give you a few examples, too.
Okay. Great. Thank you.
It's the least salesy. You can come off the as possible. I think I said this yesterday, but you might have been gone any, but like coming as kind of like a student perspective, you're just eager to learn.
Yeah.
That'll make people more interested in talking to you, and there's always you can go down the incentives route to. But you can try with that first.st
Yeah, and I know it like, for for many of us, this, along with sales in general, might feel like a bit like a chore or slog.
To some. Not all. I'm sure some of you enjoy it.
But to whatever extent you can find a way to.
Gamify it, or just mentally convert your energy into enjoying it.
And approaching it with enthusiasm.
It just really makes things smooth like you'll you'll have a great time.
Because this is truly a fun thing, because if you do it right.
You're learning things that will help you shape your business in the best way possible.
So it's all just like Upside. If you do it.
Cool.
So remember, I put in the chat. But you guys are, gonna submit your screening, and then Neil and I will go into base camp, and asynchronously approve it, or tell you to rewrite it. So remember that you're not reaching out to people until we have that extremely narrow.
And approved because we wanna basically not have to do it multiple times.
So once you submit it.
In the thread below in your task. You can just tag us, and we'll take a look at it.
Yeah, we have a quick question like, might be a bit niche to our situation. But like, we don't know if we should develop our screening for the students, which are actually our end users.
Or the parents who probably are the decision makers.
Cause. It's it's probably hard for us to get to the parents, since we have no communication with them.
And we don't really know.
Like which one to focus on here.
Hmm.
Well, it depends on what your intent is.
What your goal is right.
Cause. My instinct is that it sounds like you want to.
Speak to the decision Maker.
Yeah, it's also.
It just is an assumption here. But.
Like. Given the background of like a typical Ib student, a lot of times like the student might just be able to convince their parents without.
They're the one promoting it to the parent to get conversion.
Get.
Do you know that, or is that a hunch.
Okay.
It's a hunch based on my own experience, and like.
Yeah.
So let's find out. Let's talk to students first.st
Okay.
And then, once we figure out the origin of their awareness of tutor me, or other things in the competitive set.
Maybe you'll realize we have to talk to parents because it's clearly coming from them to the students.
Okay. Cool. Thank you.
Yeah.
But that's what we meant yesterday about like when you do a few of these.
You'll learn really quickly. Okay, maybe I need to adjust my criteria or adjust who I'm talking to, because it's already clear that we, you know, we have a different group of people we need to engage with to better understand what we need.
Also, Nick, remember that.
Everyone who has.
Customers different than their users will have to do. More than one set.
Just like everyone who's part of a 2 sided marketplace will also have to do more than one, and everyone who has different will also have to do more than one.
So you pick one, and then you'll have to go back and do the other as a separate job to be done. Set.
Great.
I guess we're good.
Yeah.
That's it.
Okay. So the agenda here is I. I wanna give you a few examples.
Of you know what this looks like, and how it manifests you. A couple of stories.
And then I'm gonna bring it home just some some closing thoughts, and maybe we'll do a.
We'll have a quick conversation about some of your respective goals with how you want to approach this.
And we'll wrap up this time. We'll probably end early, but we'll wrap up this time by doing a live demonstration of an interview.
With one of you as a subject.
So I'm looking forward to that. What my ask there is keeping the back of your head.
Any recent purchases you may have made.
That you struggle to make.
Not a potential purchase, an actual one. So something you spent money on.
That you've done in the past. Let's just say 3 ish months.
And it was a struggle.
So I want to hear from those examples. I'll be asking you all for those in a bit.
Great.
I am gonna screen share unless there's any other questions about the process. So far, what we've asked or shared.
Anything else you already for me to start.
They're good.
Alright!
Part, 3.
That's my whole screen, isn't it?
Yeah.
Let's see here.
Let's do that.
Boom.
That's good.
Very good.
So I wanted to start because we were talking about interviews yesterday. Now I'm talking about the end product. But I did want to share this list of questions to ask during the interview. So even though I said, we don't have a.
A script.
Here are some example questions that are going to be a helpful kind of springboard, as you have your conversations.
With your interviewees.
And you might be able to pick up on a pattern here, and they'll also sound very similar to what you heard from Bob.
Good.
In the mattress interview, and maybe some other examples of references.
But.
The notion here is that you're trying to do that detective work where you're coloring the situation. You're asking for specifics. Who was with you? What were you up to.
You know, where were you sitting like? There's so many interesting things to place someone in that moment and what they're they're looking at what they're doing and what contrast to provide. So just take a skim of this. I'll pull it up again.
At the end right when we before we go into the live demonstration, and then we'll make sure you all have access to these slides. And you know this list and everything.
But this is usually like the most that I'll do to prepare when I think about what I want to ask, or what I want to have handy.
Next to me.
Anyone have any questions about these questions?
Yeah.
Absolutely. Yeah. So the other thing that I like to say is like nothing's proprietary with me.
You know I don't have any secrets, you know. There's nothing I need you to lock away.
And this will be available to us as well, like a file or whatever. Okay.
I want the whole world to have access to this if they're gonna use it properly. So.
I got you, Dave.
Great. So there are a number of methodologies to bring things home and articulate what we call the job.
I. I mentioned this thing yesterday called the Job Story, and I also said that it encourages context, causality, and motivations as opposed to the subjectivity, the assumptions, and the personas.
So.
I don't think this actually came from Bob. I think there was someone else online back when you know, jobs originally emerged who invented like this formula or structure for a job story. But I really appreciated it, because at the time I was still like a budding software developer and the format of user stories used to make sense to me a lot. So I really, this this approach resonated with me, and it gave me.
More structure.
To help other people and teach other people how to do this. So.
Situation.
Motivation.
And expected or desired outcome.
This is the format.
That someone cleverly constructed for a job story that I find to be helpful as a baseline for coming up with job statements.
It's not the only way to do it, but for me, I think this is gonna be helpful to you all.
What is there? A situation?
Right. What's what's the circumstance that they're struggling through.
What kind of progress do they want to make.
And then what are they ultimately seeking as a better version of themselves, as an outcome, that light bulb across the chasm with the bridge I I visualize on day one.
One mistake that always happens.
Is with this middle block, and Liliana is so good at calling this out whenever she sees it.
People tend to just jam into the. I want to.
Their product, features.
So that's your opportunity to go. This is what our company does, and that's what the the customer wants. Therefore their motivation is to have access to our functionality.
I'm gonna caution you right now.
That usually what you think you're so I can. Is your expected outcome.
Is usually the motivation for the customer, and there's a deeper.
Expected outcome that they want, that you haven't probably thought through or conceptualized yet.
So I'll show you a few examples of what this means. But I wanted to call it out going into this because you'll be going back to this statement a lot and this framework a lot as you start to analyze your patterns and try to articulate the jobs.
And you can even use this format.
For each individual interview.
And you can have a more verbose version of the statement, for every single person.
That you you talk to in your debrief.
And then you'll have a series of 12 to 15 of these that you can then consolidate.
And combine.
So.
Couple examples. This is Jason freed. So Jason's a good friend of mine. He is the founder of Base Camp.
CEO of 37 signals.
Been in the software industry for over 25 years.
I think his product base camp has been around for 20 years. So it's it has a lot of longevity, and they have a pretty.
Substantial reputation in the tech world, given that they.
Not only have built a lot of software and have been thought leaders, and, you know, been selling, you know, all these bestselling, you know books and whatever, but they also invented the ruby on rails, framework.
So that was a big deal for me, since that was the programming language and framework that ultimately I started with Javascripted to Python, and then found my home with Ruby.
And so with all that being said, when I got to know these guys and they they were, they're based out of Chicago.
They became my one and only investor.
In in my company.
So it was the 1st time they ever invested in a company, and the 1st time I ever.
Really. No, it's not the 1st time I had an investor, but it was like my 1st strategic investor. I should say.
Says we didn't need the cash, but we wanted their expertise.
So, all that being said, I I'll out myself for a hot second. Some of you might know this, maybe many of you don't. But I actually ran for Mayor in Chicago.
Years ago.
And when I did that I use basecamp. So this is a fun little.
Screenshot from back then, and how I ran them a campaign through it. But base camp as a product and tool, we went through our jobs to be done.
Project. So I actually work with Jason and Bob.
And another person at the company named Ryan, who you'll learn more about later in the program. When we talk about product development.
And we did a round of jobs to be done for base camp. He does them once a quarter.
So every 3 months he'll do a round of jobs to be done. Interviews.
And we came up with 4. This was, I don't know. Probably.
6, 7 years ago, I think.
We did this.
But here are the 4 job statements that he came up with. And, by the way, we didn't refer to them as job statements.
These are just.
What I think Jason calls it the why before the why.
So I'll show you these 4 as a means to.
As a north star for you all to aspire for.
For each of your businesses, and for what you want to present to us, and to.
Others.
So this is number one. This is what we learned, as you can imagine, like the the visual itself is kind of speaking to this, but.
What we heard was, we can't keep working like this.
That's what came out of that was the number.
Screaming cluster like, How did you find yourself at Base Camp? We spoke to people who had recently signed up, and are paying for the tool. Now for at least a few months.
And what we heard was they were being overwhelmed with notifications and email threads and.
Conference calls and keeping track of information here, there, and everywhere else.
And something was broken, and they had to find a way to fix it.
So people found themselves in a position where it was like a hair on fire. I can't take it anymore.
And they found their home in base.
So that was the 1st cluster of people that we identified.
The next one.
Was. We can't mess up like that again.
These were people who.
Had some sort of bad event that happened with a client or with an interaction with one of their users or customers, and in screwing up, they said, you know what we need to not only tell them that we'll do better next time, but that we've already taken a proactive step to be better.
And here's how we're gonna more properly structure our work and communicate our progress and demonstrate that we have our act together.
This is another group of emotional energy for folks, and why they found themselves signing up for base camp.
And base camp at the time.
Had different pricing structures, and I'll explain more about that in a minute.
But there were significant changes that we considered making to base camp. The product.
In light of these. These examples.
2 more left.
Another one was, this project isn't getting off the ground. So people were toiling around either in Google docs or in email threads. And they're trying to get started. They're getting excited about either starting a company or working on a new project or getting, you know, some sort of new initiative started either at their business or with the new business, and they needed a way to formalize things and say, alright, now it's serious.
Like, now, it's time to actually get started. We're gonna put everything in a place. We're gonna sign up for this tool. And we're gonna make things real.
And last, but not least.
How am I going to pull this off.
So this one is.
Anticipating a major challenge coming.
Right. So maybe your company announces a new set of goals or kpis. Maybe there's you know, a deadline on the horizon, and now you're it's it's crunch time, and you need.
You know your ironman suit to to pull through, or something special that's gonna help, you know, juice you through the next phase of progress.
People with that kind of.
Motivation, and even fear.
Would hire a tool like basecamp to overcome.
So with these 4.
Insights.
There's 2 buckets.
Most of the jobs insights lead you to.
Like, I said. One is with marketing and sales, and the other one is with product.
Bringing all that together. There's a north star.
So the way this originally manifested, and this is years ago. So obviously the the company has gone through lots of other changes since.
Is this is the homepage.
That ended up getting implemented after those interviews that we had conducted, and having these conversations, so it was the notion of addressing.
This pain that we identified from the more recent customers who have been signing up for it.
So this is a helpful way for you all, as you have your conversations about like.
Go to your homepage now and compare to after you have these conversations? And are you potential customers right front and center.
Right.
So they use all the language and all the kind of marketing techniques. And they they weren't advertising much back then. But.
Even in wherever they were communicating about their business, they would leverage these different jobs and buckets to reiterate that they understood who they were talking to, and who they were, appealing to.
So that's 1 bucket right marketing and sales the other one.
And this was actually even more fun to me.
Product.
So the tool that we've been using this was years ago. So it's funny how it's like largely unchanged, even though there's been many different improvements to the product over the years. This was what it was like 7 years ago.
And here we are with the similar structure, just like like a very different ui, I guess slightly different.
But if you look at the identification of each of these cards.
These were all words that came out of those 14 jobs to be done, interviews that we did.
So when we spoke to people they were talking about Slack and hipchat.
And status, meanings and.
Like having their personal calendar get overwhelmed. They're stacked over and being micromanaged and having messy email threads or having lots of different file management tools and systems that they hop around and and over to.
So by calling by like not having to conjure your own terms to resonate with customers, but instead using their what they say to you in these interviews and conversations.
All of a sudden it becomes easy.
To, to effectively communicate and decide on product changes that you want to make.
Liliana.
Yeah, I'm gonna put George, our team member, George, on the spot because he asked me a really good question this morning.
Okay, and, George, I think it would be good to share with the class. Do you want to.
Like quickly.
Reword, or summarize what you were asking.
Sure, I basically thought about.
Yesterday, and asked Biliana, you know how.
Does what we're learning here apply on the outbound sales.
Side of this. So email campaign.
Cold calling sales cycle. How does it affect.
You know that process in attending materially changed because of.
Understanding, your customer, better.
Here and get a good answer for me.
Yeah. And I answered it in like multiple parts. So one, you know who to reach out to so like your actual segment is like targeted, and you and you get more hits on the bullseye.
2. When you're talking to them you can ask them a couple of questions, and as long as they were already in the customer segment. You have decided it.
Is your one to go after your good Icp. You can quickly realize which of your 3 or 2 job statements they fall into, and then you immediately know their situation without having to go into it. So it it will feel to them like you really understand their problem. 3, rd you all also be able to send out ads.
You'll know exactly who to paint a target, and the ads themselves will have language that your customers use, so it will resonate with people and people will start coming to you. So a good hack for the marketing ramifications here are to take.
Direct quotes from your interviews, and use them in your advertising and your marketing and your outbound.
And then the last thing I told George is the product changes and implications that come out of the insights that you make directly.
Help make your marketing more successful. So when you're doing all this outbound, not only are you having better hit rates to get on the call with them, but your product addresses the needs that they have, so you can be more confident selling it and.
The product kind of speaks for itself because it feels like you know them in like a.
A very fitted glove way.
So I really liked that conversation we had this morning. I'm sure other people were wondering that, too. Did you want to add anything, Neil?
That was great.
So.
One other example I have to share. Now and then we have more. So we have founders that are gonna come back and share some. Liliana has a few loaded up as well.
So I'm excited for you all to see what it's like today as we work with founders through techsoup and what those references are. But.
As old school as I am. I like to kind of use my own data first, st and
Another piece of my lore is that I did this coding school thing so.
One of the frustrations I had when I was running my school was.
Learning, management, systems.
So I tried to use.
Base camp for it. I tried to use apps like blackboard, and then another app called canvas came out not long after, but these were all like really beefy tools. And then there was even this software called Google Classroom. I don't know if anybody remembers Google classroom. I think they ended it, or it's no longer in the what it was. But I tried all these different learning management tools, and and none of them did the job for me. So I ended up like rolling my own product, and I built a an app called lantern. This is a long time.
But I built my own Lms for my school, and then I realized that I could actually start selling it to universities. So I started getting a university professors onto the platform, and I ended up having a little bit of traction and made a little bit of money. Not a lot. But it was a fun little like.
Tool. I called it base camp for classrooms. That was my high value concept, for it.
But I wanted to share. The more traditional formula.
Of when I want to. So I can. And what that job story manifests as just to give you all another reference for it. So as I did jobs to be done, interviews for lantern.
Here are the 3 that kind of came out of it.
One was, I've got a week before class starts. Let's update the curriculum in syllabus. So this is from the perspective of the professor.
And this is exactly what I was going through as a teacher.
So when I'm preparing for my class for next quarter. During the break.
I wanna make changes based on what I learned the last time. So I can have a plan and stick to it going into each class. So this directly led to a feature that we were building out, which was essentially a syllabus builder.
Right? So you take a syllabus for a class and you want to refine it and update it based on what you're gonna do next.
So that was leading up to the class.
There's 2 more. One was. This part of class isn't going as planned. I need to adjust what we're doing.
So this happens in real time, as you're having a session even like this one right here, or when you're teaching something you need to call an audible every now and then, when you know things either go in a different direction, or someone asked in an interesting question, and it opens up a cascade of conversation that you hadn't anticipated.
So when I'm teaching and something doesn't go according to plan, I want to make an adjustment to class in real time. So I can keep my students and not feel disorganized.
So that's another version of something I can both advertise and market around.
Connect with certain professors, but then also, build features around as well.
And last, but not least, did I teach a successful class today. This is that long drive I have coming from Evanston, Illinois, driving back down to South side of City of Chicago. And I'm thinking for those 45 min.
Did I say the right thing? Did I ask the right question? Were the students what do I need to do next week?
How do I remember teaching this class better for the next quarter? I need to teach.
So when I'm done with class, I want to know what went well, what could be better? So I can make adjustments.
So these were those big buckets.
And the way to kind of like bring this all home from a product. Standpoint is.
We're understanding the job right now.
And then there's patterns in the world of who does what? So any.
Given feature, functionality, or button press or ui element, you see, is borrowed from someone else in large part.
So even the elements in base camp. I remember I was talking to Jason about implementing his jobs when he was building the next version of it.
And I asked them like, Okay, well, where did you come up with this layout for your messages in this inbox? He says. He pulled up Gmail.
And he goes. You see these.
Like lines here like, that's where I got the inspiration from. So I think it's really cool that it's not a big deal to draw inspiration from what you know and what resonates with you, and so long as you're being respectful and not explicitly, you know.
Copying and pasting.
You know. Just look at the world and understand the patterns, and implement them yourselves in your own way, for your customers.
And that leads to your product concepts. So.
Final quote from Bob.
The struggling moment is the seat for all innovation. Find where people struggle, and if they're not struggling, they're not buying.
Bob and I have had a lot of time together over the years, and.
I I gotta say I'm looking forward to you all meeting him. He's gonna be, I think, joining us in a month or 2. So that'll be a little bit of a master class to hear from him, and he's gonna interact and work with all your businesses.
But just to like kind of conclude here.
Your business decisions can be informed by this, you can change the way you market your company.
The language you're gonna use to, you know. Describe your products.
Where you're choosing to advertise what channels you're leveraging for. It.
And who you're even selling to.
It's not about a particular industry.
It's not about demographics like we talked about.
And it's not even about your competitors before it's about the job that the people you want to help are hiring you to do.
So think about their situation.
Think about the reality they're trying to wrangle.
And the progress that they're trying to make.
That's it.
Yeah, we should pause here for questions, cause we're gonna go into.
A separate thing. Does anyone want to ask anything about.
These base camp airline turn examples.
This is a good.
Preview of what you guys are going to be doing in week 6. You're gonna present this. It'll kind of be the capstone of your whole jobs to be done.
Learning here.
I know we've we've kind of hinted a little bit at the changes between B to C and B to BI.
I. I'm curious how if, like any of the questions you mentioned for, like larger purchases, right like if you're not buying like a small like $8 thing versus like a 50,000 thing.
Yeah.
Like in my end. People are trying to do these like bigger costs. It's like you would kind of phrase it differently, or changing with the way you're asking questions.
For sure. Yeah. So you yeah, it's definitely gonna be. You will.
Have fewer inputs regarding some of the more personal narratives that we get into right like.
We're not asking. You know who you were at home with on your kitchen counter, having an argument with about making a purchase on an Amazon. You know, shopping list website.
So there are some subtle differences there. Cause the work context is gonna be where more of the conversation centers? But even then.
There is a lot of consistency, though, with the the.
The the notion of needing to color the environment.
So what you'll have to do on the B Twob front, which can be frustrating is you're gonna have to have multiple conversations with different people at different levels, who are all influencing the decision rather than the individual purchaser.
So, Morgan, as you as you go, and as you formulate your screening, you'll have to be a little bit more robust, and maybe the different subgroups that you break down.
But then we can help prepare you a little bit, and coach you directly on.
You know, ways to approach those conversations where you get the most value from it.
Thank you.
I have a follow up question on that. So would those be considered different jobs to be done sets because you're speaking to different decision makers? Or can they be part of the same.
Set.
I think you can start with it as part of the same set.
But if it's very clear that there are.
Extremely different needs.
You will intuitively split them up.
Right? So different stakeholders are gonna have different criteria.
But I've also learned at the b 2 b side that.
Different companies may have.
Different levels of influence between the champion and the person who's signing off.
So they may have alignment versus some others who may have very different motivations.
And it'll take more time to identify the pattern.
But I would start with it as a 1 group.
Annie.
How do you? How do you.
Determine, because I know with when I do customer feedback.
Got it? Thanks.
You know. Sometimes it can be all over the place, and you have to kind of decide what customer feedback to really absorb and what customer feedback.
Yeah.
To kind of toss out as a 1 off.
Is that with.
Is that where the patterns comes in? So if, like a feedback comes up over and over again, you take it. If it only comes up once you kind of ignore it. How do you weigh between.
Feedbacks.
Excellent question. So you treat it kind of like a heat map.
Okay.
So what you'll see is, there will be certain things that come up over and over again, and there's a few outliers that we like to call out as well.
And every now and then an outlier might be worth digging into meaning like you only heard one person say it, but it resonates with you, and you want to dig in more.
So you may do another round of interviews centered around that outlier example, just to validate whether there's something there or not. So you might get a hint with an anecdote like that. But yes, you are looking for the heat map and the patterns, and it's kinda hard to just for you to take my word for it. But I promise you that with the right screening, it's it's almost gonna you're you're gonna feel like you're wasting your time.
By the time you're you're doing it right. So you're on interview 10.
And you're like
I know I already know where this is going.
And then you end up ending the call early. So it's a 15 min interview instead of a 30 min interview, because you kinda you were able to guess at every step what they were. Gonna say. So that's when the patterns emerge. Annie.
Okay. Great.
Cool.
Yeah, I have another example of screening this time. It's from cicada.
I'd love to pull it up, and then you can like talk through what you think. There.
Be this.
Like b to b but
The businesses they're selling to are independent artists.
Let me share really quick.
This is good.
Yes, and Mitch was a standout from the last program, with jobs to be done as well. He had some significant breakthroughs that changed the direction of his business. It's a good example.
Professional musicians. This was a scary business. Y'all just so, you know I I.
Live music. It's it's there's a lot of money, but it's it's a very hard business to make work, especially with tech.
Change their talent. Manager, booking agent, recording label or merchandise provider, again boiling the ocean.
Alright!
All like 4. So only thing I critique here is that he's trying to.
More stuff in with his criteria. Then he probably should, with starting.
Because I believe where we landed with cicada, if I recall correctly, was the talent manager.
It was talent, manager and merch, provider.
So they went downwards and.
Yeah.
Right. So he ended up not needing the booking agent or recording label.
But because he cast a wide net. In the beginning he found out that the booking agent and recording label weren't relevant.
And that the talent managers and merchandise providers were the ones that he wanted to ultimately serve, and he ended up having to split up talent, management, and merchandise providers as different sets of interviews.
That he conducted.
And we helped him through that.
So.
Yep.
And then you have different product ramifications from both sets that kind of changed and led to what? Where he was at Demo day.
But do you guys see how specific this is? So he might know I'm.
It was, it was probably difficult for him to find 15 people who specifically fit this exact set.
Well, what I'm struggling with, though, is the or it feels like the org just opens it up considerably. So you would. Shouldn't that be an and or why did he go with the or customers.
Who have recently signed up for one of the case plans. It's like.
Well, but he's he's including his customers, along with other like potential competitor.
Along with it.
So he. He conflated the.
Exactly.
Probably because he didn't have enough customers for to do his own research on his own.
He had only 3 or 3 to 5, I remember, and so he couldn't do a full set with that. And so he did. People who hired a competitor, or who hired his.
And it ended up being the same moment for both.
I see. Okay.
What he was currently offering.
And.
I'm.
Yes.
Ask you a lot of questions, so I'll make sure I do this right? So.
Good.
If if
Cause for ours. There's new regulations coming out right? So they might have not been using something before, so it might not necessarily have been a switch, but they've started doing something. It does that go into the same category as a switch. It's so.
Specifically like.
They've never collected Dei data. And now they're collecting Dei data.
Okay.
Yeah. Switch from non-consumption counts. We just call that a hiring moment.
So hiring, firing your switch.
Just another.
All, all, count.
And I like your question, Danny. They're very helpful to the group.
Agreed.
Thank you.
Anything else to note here.
I like this part.
Like qualifying it to make sure that not only have they done this like one of these things, but they're of quality for me to talk to.
Because it would be a waste of his time. If they don't do at least 15 performances, they're not going to make any money.
From Mircha's platform. Cicada, if they don't make.
Or do that many performances, so it just wouldn't be mutually beneficial. So don't even talk to the people who aren't.
Going to benefit from your product.
Cool any other questions here before we move on.
I.
Just want the like learn about. How did he.
Exactly find find these people.
Like. How did he search for these people? Because.
Like sitting down comfortably narrowed lists, like narrows.
Aspects are a thing but to find and reaching these people.
It's it's a whole. Another story.
Because you cannot.
Get enough data to make sure those people did. He just like.
Try to reach out.
I'm a massive group, and like collects.
When he gets the proper responses, or.
Something else.
So there were a couple I know he did go on some like Facebook pages and things like that of musicians, but he also mainly got them from the network of his network. So he asked his current customers for referrals to other musicians, because they all know people. He also asked musicians that he knows that maybe aren't customers about.
Referrals to other people.
Those are the main ways that he found other businesses to talk to, I would say for you, it's like, you guys are all gamers. You can talk to people like Dave. Get Dave to give you referrals. You like. Current customers can give you referrals to other customers like people know people who are like them. So that's like the best way to start.
Do you have any more advice about the hunt? Now.
Because I know it's kind of tricky.
It is, but you have to get.
You have to be those weird founders that just get really creative and crafty how to get in front of people. You know what I mean, like, this is the game.
I think I said this to some folks who hung out for overtime yesterday.
But, like the whole idea here is.
If.
It's hard to find them.
You should be excited.
Because that means that of your competitors are also having a hard time getting a hold of these people to get these insights.
So if you do the work and you get, you know you get in front of these folks. You're you're getting access to information that sets you at an advantage.
So when you like, I I also love from a fundraising standpoint, because then, when you end up talking to investors.
It's almost like you're sharing like a secret.
Yeah, like, we're onto something like, we have something really interesting that we figured out about what's going on here and why we build our product in a certain way, and it's not like by saying it out loud. Someone could steal it.
Because the level of depth that you have with understanding and unpacking these people's journeys and their stories.
Cannot just be easily written down and shared and understood.
So again, I think it's a secret weapon for you to figure that out, and as you struggle which you will, I will get creative in helping you think about ways to identify the right people within your particular industry or segment.
Yeah, I was telling the team at our off. Say, this is one of the easiest ways to make a moat for your business.
Like, Neil was saying. You don't have to worry about any sort of product info being stolen or anything like that. This is a true, unfair advantage that you can show to investors and also win.
So. So one question I have like for my particular characters is, am I looking for people who are currently bot playing my game?
Or who have currently purchased my name. Is it? Am I.
Hmm.
In in my focus on people who are playing or purchasing.
That's interesting. So I would be interested in both groups eventually. I don't know which group we should prioritize right now.
But one group is you. You purchased my game, but you're not playing it anymore.
Yeah, yeah.
What's going on right.
The other group is, you're an active player of my game, and you purchased it. I want more of you, and I want more people to be like you.
So that latter group is interesting.
But the question the question is, is, do I do I recruit based on play, or do I recruit based on purchase because there could be people out there that are playing it, but have never purchased it.
Or and so am I focused on the playability. Am I focused on the purchaseability.
Well, it depends on your learning objective. So I can. I can derive 2 learning objectives from those 2 different things, a lot of people that go through people who have purchased, but they're not using it. That's like I wanna make my product better. Why aren't people using it? If you wanna talk and get more customers, and you're just worried about them paying and getting in the door. You probably wanna talk to the people who have purchased it like.
Period, end statement just purchased.
Okay.
So it's what you're learning, right? So like.
Some of our companies have already gotten a lot of customers, and they're just having like conversion problems like maybe they purchase it. They get a lot of people through the door, and they realize their product isn't good because they're losing people. After the 3rd month.
Yeah.
That would be like. Why, you would do the users.
Jobs to be done.
Yeah, I mean, before the live demo. This is what I had ready to pull up to talk about briefly, as a group.
For anyone who's thought about it? Or was it willing to share.
Right? What? What would make this a success for you?
To take this seriously, because one thing I really don't want is for this to be a waste of your time. So if you feel like you've got it dialed in, and you know the jobs, and you're ready to, just, you know. Hit, go and take all our money and drop it into your sales strategy.
There's a case for that. It's probably rare. But if somebody wants to make that argument with me, I've I've fielded it before.
But otherwise I'd be curious to know other people's learning objectives.
Go ahead, George!
Oh, cool. Thanks. I'm happy to go. Yeah, so.
You've probably noticed through the interview process that
I have one kind of vertical.
Kind of well defined, but that one super vague where I'm sort of talking about the buyers of market research that I want to target.
And so that's something that's been causing a fair bit of anxiety about. How do I approach.
This massive sort of segment and.
Sort of.
Divide those up, and.
Prioritise those so.
Definitely my objective there is to.
Understand that sort of.
Number of verticals.
Great, and and.
I'm so I'm paying hugely, like, I'm really hugely focused right now on this.
This is setting off all the flags. Yeah.
No, that's awesome, George. I actually wanted I wanted to get your comments on this actually, because, given what you do with your business. This is like the almost like I feel like a precursor to hopefully what no edic becomes.
Yeah, yeah, so interesting, like.
You know, I've spoken with so many market research companies. And what you guys are doing is like.
I would say, of a higher quality than.
Any of them. Do you know what I mean like, this is the foundational stuff that none of them get right? Basically.
I think the only company I've ever spoken to that does.
Something of this size, you know, Gartner.
Yeah, I do.
They do the hype cycle.
Yep.
Yeah, God, no, yeah. So I'd say they're the only research company I've spoken with on this level of quality.
Well.
I.
To be honest in this foundational approach, so.
No.
It. It means a lot coming from you, sir, since this is your world of expertise, and I'm just moonlighting here for the past decade for startups. But thank you for saying that.
Needs a lot.
No super impressive. So like, yeah, for everyone who's here as well.
This is setting up all of the sort of all the neurons at the moment for me, where I'm like.
Okay, these guys know what they're talking about. I've got a seriously.
Focus on this and take it seriously. So.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Let's go. Yeah, it helps. It helps when you're with like the the people who do it for real, you know, like the professors in this universities and stuff. And then you then you see that they're behind, like a lot of interesting products like I can't say who and on what, but.
I've said, Apple, I've said, you know.
There's intercom. There's sonos, there's a lot of products. Instagram.
Yeah.
Whoa!
So this is the stuff that they're doing behind the scenes at these companies that they're not promoting or talking about. But these are the ideas that they're leveraging. So our mission has been to bring it to the early stage Startup Land. As we are right now, so I'm glad it's it's connecting.
It's amazing. Thanks.
Alright!
William.
Yeah, look, I am echoly. All those words. It's it's a much, much deeper dive than we've ever thought about tackling this, and I think, as you guys know, the text, Us team, we're.
We've been.
Exploring a few different verticals, a few different industries. But the big kind of reflection and takeaway from this for us is.
Messaging and language that we're using when we're gonna be reaching out to them, and even pages actually going back to the drawing board and.
Really tightening up the language to make it really resonate with what we.
Believe is the the problem that they're that we're trying to solve.
At the moment. It's far too generic. With a few little sprinkles, but it needs to be.
Yeah, completely.
Ripped up. So it's
Yeah, something that I like the base camp example with.
That that landing page with the hair on fire.
Yeah.
Well, you know this is, it might surprise you all. But when I started at this job 5 years ago.
I I no jobs, and I was teaching it and stuff. But.
Coming in as a managing director for techs. For the 1st time.
I had.
A lot of imposter syndrome.
Cause. I was fairly young. I think I was the youngest to have been ever been hired to do the job. And I was like, okay, I'm not gonna tell anyone what to do. I'm just gonna offer up things I think are helpful.
So I just like floated these ideas to that 1st class of founders. I didn't prescribe it. I didn't have exercises or activities. I just said, Hey, here's the thing I know, and if anyone's interested I can help.
And as every program went on.
Liliana, and I got more and more confident.
About how important this was, because we saw the difference between the companies that took it seriously.
And their performance, either from fundraising from profitability.
Being alive as a business. Still, the ones who took jobs during the program of their own volition, where there was like there was a correlation.
In their in their trajectory. So that's why it's like so heavy.
In this current, like form.
For you all. So just understand? Like it came from a lot of iterations and feedback.
Neil, can you go back to the job statement? I wanna run through. Okay, perfect.
What Neil was saying here earlier. I'm sure a lot of you are still going to do it.
Like the little pitfall that happens here. So I thought it would be helpful to visualize or to demonstrate with an example. Think about the Mcdonald's milkshake example that we went through on Wednesday.
Does anyone want to take a stab at trying to write a job statement for what.
Clay would have used after all of the interviews he did, talking to all the people who were drinking the monks before 8 in the morning.
I will give you a hint.
That I want to is not. I want to drink a milkshake.
That is what we mean by like inserting your your product in there. I promise you. The 1st thing that a lot of people will think is like when I'm driving to work. I want a milkshake that.
Filled me up so I can be full for work and be occupied on the drive.
That's exactly what kind of like a 1st time.
Attempt at making a job statement looks like, and that's fine, and a lot of you will do that, and you'll do it withouticing, and we'll critique it because.
The job statement is supposed to be separate from your product. The product you have right now may or may not.
Be. The answer to what this job statement is. The whole point is that we want the truth. We're not tailoring it so that the product you have right now.
Fits this. We want the truth of the customers so that you can change your product to exactly it. It's kind of like useless if we're just gonna.
Meld it to fit whatever we have already.
Same with like the snickers when I'm in a rush. Neil gave us the when part when I'm in the rut in a rush I'm starving, and I don't know when the next time I'm gonna eat is I want to buy a snickers on the way to my gate so I can be.
Satiated during my flight. That doesn't work as well. They don't want to buy a sneakers they want. I want a quick snack that I can buy on the way to my gate.
They want to stave off hunger.
One hand, yeah.
So they can sleep on the plane after they get their emails done before they get on the plane.
Exactly.
So you don't want to insert your product.
Does anyone wanna try.
With the milkshake. Example.
What those people want, what those commuters.
Job statement would be.
When I'm on a long commute I wanna do something with my hands.
Yeah.
I wanna occupy myself.
So so you can. What's the rest, Dave?
So I can. What.
So I could not be bored. On my way to my job.
There we go!
And I think I think that's totally valid. I think there are probably like 2 or 3 that come out of this video from client, and that was definitely one of them.
Caesar.
Yeah, it was pretty similar, like, when I'm driving, I want to have a distraction, so I can enjoy the road a bit.
Exactly can anyone think of I can think of like one more? That also came out of the.
Video. So we have the people who want something in their hand.
But.
There's also a more general one.
Think of the competitors they were buying. The job statement should fit across all the things they were hiring. So they were hiring bagels.
Bananas, donuts.
Were those all just to have something in their hand? Or was there a group that also wanted something else?
Yeah, I guess to be satisfied. They've they've got some form of hunger, but not.
Yeah, they've got a few different options to choose from.
Yeah. So do you wanna try a job statement? William.
So when I'm driving to work I want to in the morning I wanna relieve my hunger.
No, that's perfect, so I can.
Is that hang totally messed up? So yeah, so that I can feel energized for work.
Yeah, for when I get to my job exactly.
I. And I can imagine that if we ask them about what happened before they started doing that they might arrive like a zombie, or like in a slog, where they arrive in their.
Starving, and they just eat the 1st thing from the vending machine. I mean, that's those are just speculation. You would have to ask the customers. But that's exactly right. So those would be the 2 I would say, I got from the milkshake interview. That is exactly right. And you guys did it perfectly. So does everyone see how the motivation is not? You're not saying.
The product that you want. It's what you want to accomplish, so that you can get your expected outcome.
So that's all I wanted to say. Here, now.
No, that's a great point. And it reminded me to mention one other thing which.
The other reason why we've incorporated so much of this jobs training before the program even officially starts.
Is.
We find that you all go into mentor madness in particular.
And when you end up meeting with the mentors.
They start to grill you and ask really tough questions, because they're very smart people.
And.
They!
Will kind of.
Run you in circles a little bit, and then people come out of mentor madness, kind of overwhelmed and exhausted because you've been answering tough questions for 2 weeks, straight.
And it feels like you weren't even able to effectively.
You know, defends yourself in your business in some respects, because their job is to poke holes in it the whole time, so it can be very draining. It's kind of like raising. It's it's almost like raising capital. That's how much strain can can be put on founders when they go through it.
So what gives you like true.
Like armor going into that.
That journey.
Is not just your own opinions about the viability of your business.
But no, no, I've spoken to.
Customers.
Of these products which are in my competitive set and my own, if I have them.
And here's what they say.
So it's less about you having a disagreement with an investor or a mentor about what you both think is right or wrong about what the need is. And instead, it's literally using the demand side validation that you have.
To like. Say, here's what I'm hearing. Here's what I'm learning, and here's what they're saying.
Because it's a huge like.
UN unfortunate pattern within venture.
For us, investors.
To think we know more than we do.
And I can't.
Tell you how many times I've heard investors.
Try to like personally, connect or relate to the problem that you're solving with your business and make claims about their understanding of it, based on their own anecdotal instincts.
And experiences.
So it's not a particularly sophisticated or impressive thing, but that is unfortunately how the game goes, and people will make decisions.
Based off of those personal anecdotes, especially if you, the founder, don't come back with your own.
A set of of insights and data that you can point to.
So that's the other thing we're designing against by having you all get ahead with this information.
Cool.
Alright, I promise to do it. Live do you all want to?
Ask anything else before we dive into this. Is there any other final things? Because once we do this, we'll probably conclude.
We'll do one or 2 sets.
Alright cool
Do you all need a break before we start this? Do you need like a 5 min bio break, or something like that? Are you ready to go, and you just power through and end early. I saw a thumb went up.
Bio break. Yes.
Alright!
Take 5.
We'll be back in 5.
1111 sharp will start.
We'll start at 11. Pst.
You're you're gonna want to be extremely focused for the next 30 min to hear this interview.
Perfect.
Are you, gonna Djulian? Even Djing.
There we go!
Yeah, I can. I mean, it's just my local.
So when I play.
I mean, it's better. It's better than all my random stuff.
I play this all day in my house.
Play it. Take 5. Since we're taking 5.
Yeah, sorry I didn't. I just saw it. Sec.
All good.
Alright!
Let's do this.
Okay, so.
I gave you all assignment at the top of this call.
Who's been spending money.
Knee takers.
I'm happy to all.
I mean, I've bought stuff, but I don't remember anything.
Yeah, I want struggling purchases. I want purchases that took some effort. Yeah, George, what's 1 for you?
I'm a pretty good. Yeah.
They were really quick, so they might not contain much information.
Oh, what's 1? 0,
This right here. Oh, you can't see it. It's a.
You backpack. It was expensive, but there was a lot of consideration that went into it. So.
How much.
Money.
It!
200 8,300 pounds.
Okay.
That's a lot.
Yeah.
That's yeah, okay. And then you struggled. How did you struggle to buy it?
I went back and forth with other products for quite a while.
And.
Trying to choose between the different sizes of the same product or.
A new one. All that kind of stuff.
Trying to watch, really reviews and zoom in and see all features.
Okay. Okay.
That kind of thing. So.
Good, all right. So I got a backpack.
What else we got. Y'all.
What are some other purchases?
Maybe what insurance health insurance to get for coming to the Us.
For 3 months, and kind of deliberating and.
Learning about all the different conditions. That was quite the struggle.
Okay. And then where did you end? Up?
What did you choose?
So ended up using like an insurance marketplace that was recommended by someone. But then the Crm on that to use so.
Ended up using the one that matched. What most people said would be would be helpful for us during that period.
Yeah.
That was.
Quite a lot of time in like looking into the different contracts and conditions.
Okay? And then what? What was the ultimate cost of it?
What's the rate.
Conference.
Quote is $300.
Yeah.
300. Okay? And then is that like a recurring, it's some cadence. Is that monthly or something else?
So it's that's a 1 off fee for the 3 months.
Okay, got it, got it.
What else we got.
And a backpack. I got insurance.
No one's spending any money.
What's the one.
Can it be for work, or does it have to be a personal purchase.
I mean it could be either personal is usually juicier at this phase, but it doesn't matter.
I had a struggle. I had to buy a.
Kind of like a document for our our cell culture work last month. That was hard.
Okay. How much was the document?
Was 5,000.
Woo.
Alright, okay, and that, and that's on the business end. But that's that's still real like.
Yeah.
You could take that personally.
Okay.
It hurt a little. I didn't want to.
But you did.
Yes, yes.
That's a good one.
What else? What else?
Backpack insurance and a document.
We just found a place to stay in San Francisco to attend this program, and it was a really.
By the process, because we do not know anywhere. To like live where to live would have to go to the.
Office.
What to do in San Francisco, and how to like perfectly.
Without like x.
Feeding our budgets.
And where did you land? How much is the place that you signed up for.
It's around 5 grand.
And it's around. It's at mission district.
Got it. So it's and it's how many of you all.
Saying, there.
4.
So 4 people, 5 grand! That's that's actually not crazy.
Yeah.
All right.
Hopefully.
Oh, yeah. Well, yeah, we'll see.
That's hair.
Alright. So we got a couple 5 granders. I like that big money, big money.
Anyone else.
Nobody purchased anything on Prime Day. That was like over 100 bucks. I bet you some of you did.
I didn't even know it was prime Day. That's a.
That was the thing.
In July.
Oh, okay.
Not a fine day, or anything, but like I go to.
Shoot boots.
I wanted.
Hiking boots.
Yeah, I wanted something that will be like, repellant, repellent. And I bought a bit of like $60 or something.
But.
It took a long time for me to decide. I can.
Hmm, okay.
60. 0, I can! I can move, can get expensive. I bought my 1st pair for the 1st time ever in my life earlier this year, and I was like Oh, no, you could.
You can spend a lot of money on shoes. I was like jeez.
They're gonna get dirty right away. What's going on.
I bought. I bought my mom a set of dog training classes.
She got a new dog. It was for her. It was her birthday present, and the dog training classes total was $1,200.
So, okay, so tell me, this is interesting.
Did you struggle to buy this for your mom?
I did. Yes, it was very expensive, and.
I I got to a point where my mom was driving me crazy about the dog, so.
Yeah.
Oh, okay, she was driving you crazy. So this was more like you. I need to spend this money to.
Yes.
This is, there's more than just your benefit. This is about my benefit, too.
I like them.
1,200 for dog trip. That's crazy. How many classes is it? I'm curious now.
It's total. 8 classes.
But yeah, very fancy dog trainer.
I don't know guys. I think we have a winner.
Yeah, I wanna know.
Oh, no! Really.
I think the fancy dog trainer might be the one. Yeah, that.
I need to know the story behind it.
I want to know.
This is.
Oh, you'll get so much insight into my family life. This is gonna be exciting.
That's what I'm here for. This is good.
Let's do it.
William, did you wanna say something?
I mean looking at the price. This is probably since our 1 million or something.
That.
William, were you gonna say something?
Yeah, I was. I was gonna volunteer, Dominique, but because I haven't been purchasing. But.
She recently moved away. After about 10 years.
From using an iphone, and she's bought a Samsung flip.
Whoa!
And I can tell you that was that was like at least a 1 year purchase decision.
Because she's she uses every other.
Mac product. So she's like.
Wow!
Away from the ecosystem. But I'm sorry she's she can't join tonight. But yeah, that was. There was a lot of struggle in that decision.
Well, William, you have some homework now.
Yeah.
I'm gonna do the.
You have to do the interview. You have to come back to us. We need to know, like, how does that go.
Title.
Yes, take what you've learned.
But no, I'm loving. I'm loving these other examples.
Lady.
All right. Annie, I think we're gonna have to go with it.
Yeah.
Alright!
Liliana, are you gonna join me in this.
Get ready for an in-depth. Look at me and my mother's relationship. So.
Let's go. Okay. So everyone's in on this. By the way. So Liliana and I will drive it.
But we have this thing called game off.
So if I say game off, that means that we'll pause. The interview itself.
Come to the room and like, talk about what we're hearing, you all are. Gonna help us identify the questions we need to ask.
So I'm never perfect at this. So it's always a learning process for me, too.
So remember, it's not about the script.
We're looking for functional and emotional forces at play.
And for the interview itself.
Try to think about what you would ask.
Instead of one of us.
Right as we go.
Listen really closely.
Try to identify the forces of progress as they come up.
And
Try to map the timeline as we go as well like. Treat yourself like you're our co-pilot.
In this conversation.
With Annie.
And if there's any questions that we don't ask, that you think are important, write them down so that.
You'll have a chance to ask them at the end if we have time.
Cool.
Alright! So here's a quick reference.
Just for you to kind of have that in. Maybe I can take a screenshot of this and drop it in the chat.
Because I don't think we need it up. Live right now. But I'll just go ahead and do that real quick.
Go.
And here.
Alright, it should be in the chat.
Now.
Great.
All right. So Annie.
Yes.
Thank you for joining us. Do we have permission to record this conversation.
You sure do.
Okay, thank you. Well, we're gonna ask you some questions, and.
You know. Forgive us if I ever interject I. I'm not trying to be rude. I'm trying to respect our time.
And you know, sometimes we'll end up asking very specific questions, and they might come off strange, but.
Just know that we're trying our best to color the scene and just get to know you better and understand.
These classes that you purchased for your mother recently.
Cool. Alright, so if you don't mind starting when did you make this purchase?
I made this purchase in June of this year.
June of this year. Okay? And.
Yeah.
So that was, you know, a few months ago. It was it.
A particular time, like what was going on in June.
Well, so it was.
My mother's birthday coming up her birthdays June 4.th
And I was trying to think of a gift. I hadn't really come up with anything like too significant. It was her 70th birthday, so I wanted to give her something very nice and meaningful.
And then it was also around that time that her and I were planning.
To take a summer trip to Montana. So we were driving together to Montana.
And.
Yeah. And and we're just doing a lot of planning ahead of time. So I was also communicating with her a lot during that time.
Okay? And so you were planning the trip. Is that what you mean?
Yeah, planning. You know, I was gonna drive down to San Diego, and then we were with, all of our pets. Gonna be driving up to Montana.
Okay, all of our pets. So so, Ca, can you help me understand? Who are these pets?
Yes, so.
Who's in the roster here.
The roster is my cat Ozzie, who you all have met.
And then she has a very large cat splotch and then she has a 9 month old puppy with 9 months old at the time. That she had recently gotten she actually got the dog for the cat the cat needed a friend and was a very big kind of rough house type of cat.
And so she thought, a dog it would get along. And they are. They're like the best of friends. But it was definitely a new adventure, traveling with a dog.
Okay and had, had you ever.
Done this before, or is this the 1st time you are traveling together with your pets?
1st time.
Okay, and and the purchase that you made for her. So her birthday was June 4.th Did you make it before June 4, th or after.
Yeah. So I made it actually, yes. So I guess I made the
Purchase in May. Like end of May.
Okay, and and.
How long had you been thinking about these classes?
Probably.
So I've been thinking about getting her classes, but I was on the fence because they were so like, I knew that classes were expensive. I hadn't done like a ton of research on them. But I'd been.
Probably mulling over.
Getting her classes.
For like 4, 4 to 5 months.
At that time.
So she bought the.
Puppy 9 months.
Prior.
And you're saying 4 to 5 months.
Yeah, exactly.
Into. That is, when you thought about it. Did something happen that triggered your curiosity about classes.
Yes,
My mom was.
So my mom is an anxious person, I would say. She's also she has a bit of Ocd.
And so.
She's she hasn't had a dog since she was a kid. She's always had a cat.
And I don't think she fully understood the amount of work.
That went into having a puppy.
And so.
Pretty much every call I had with her.
Was some sort of.
Like breakdown about the dog like, and it got to the point.
Of like.
This buying this dog was a huge mistake. I shouldn't have gotten the dog.
You know there's nothing I can do. This is ruined. My life like just you know.
Yeah.
She tends to
Like catastrophize, I guess.
And it made me sad whenever I had those talks with her. Because I love the dog. It's like the sweetest dog on the planet. She's so cute. I'll send you guys all pictures of her.
And.
You know, and I knew.
That she was catastrophizing. But yeah, so it got.
It got really bad pretty much. Every call was something about the dog, it was so awful, and she just.
Seem very sad about it.
And and then towards May it started to get worse. I would say.
What made things worse in May.
Well, the puppy hit this
I guess, like every puppy goes through a little bit of like a teenage.
Phase.
I.
Do research what I'm not doing startup stuff. I'm doing like pet research. So I was doing some research. And I guess, like the puppy had hit this teenage phase where.
Even the training up until then. So my mom had purchased
Petco training. She had gone to other dog training schools.
And.
Made a little bit of progress, but things like you know, whining whenever my mom just even went downstairs.
Accidents in the house.
Going like barking at other dogs on their walk, just started to get worse.
And so my mom started to get a little hopeless. I guess that it was just gonna keep.
Keep getting worse.
Got it. Okay? Well, I'm sorry to hear that. And, by the way, what's the name of of the dog?
The dog's name is Cindy Lou.
Cindy, Lou.
All right.
Yeah, like, after the Grinch character she got around Christmas. And so that was actually the name. She was a
It's this really cute adoption place called Mission Bay Rescue and they rescued her, and that and her name was Cindy Lou, and my mom loves Dr. Seuss. So my mom just made Cindy Lou who and she's got.
Grinch pajamas, the whole thing so.
Was there. Had you noticed anything up till then? That was positive.
About your mom having Cindy.
Yeah. Well, I just like, you know, my mom loves to hike, but she sometimes is nervous to hike by herself. In Montana there are bears.
And so like having a dog, she felt more comfortable, like with the idea of going on long hikes by herself, with the dog.
Her and the dog are so cute together like, you know, they almost look alike.
The dog loves her unconditionally.
And she loved the way that the cat and the dog got along so well. So there was a lot of positive.
It was. The problem was, is that my mom.
Like, was.
Like not.
Seeing the positive because she was like hyper focusing on the negative.
Got it, and and you mentioned that every conversation you had with your mom was essentially about the challenges with the dog.
Yeah,
So were there.
So when when things kind of came to a head in May had you had.
Had you ever purchased classes like this before.
For any of your pets.
Nope! Never my life!
Okay.
We're we're definitely a cat family. So like, you know, cats don't require a lot of training. You just kind of get what you get with cats.
So this was.
Dog stuff was definitely new to me.
Okay. And were there other people that you were able to talk to get advice about what to do?
Yeah, so my little. So my little sister has a dog and.
She.
She wasn't the most helpful, I guess, because she just I think.
Was of the mindset, like.
You know.
Accidents happen, dogs misbehave.
You know, investing in classes, maybe isn't the best.
The best thing to do.
But I think what really.
Kind of push me while there was a few things that kind of push me. But I think one thing was just knowing my mom, so well, that like, if.
She was gonna have her a dog in her life. It needed to be a very well behaved.
Dog.
This is something that you learned, or something that your mom said to you.
It's something I interpreted. I think.
Okay.
From her like just.
You know, knowing my mother.
She just needed a well behaved dog, and and that's why I.
One of the reasons why I chose the one that I chose and why it was so expensive is because they actually train
They. They specialize in training like service dogs and and dogs for disability.
Use.
So like, you know the dogs are.
Very well, like.
They are like.
They have to be well behaved, and so.
That was.
One of the one of the reasons why I chose the one I chose, and then another reason was,
The.
It.
My mom had complained in the past.
About the.
Trainers that she had signed up for all treat, or like
Reward focused.
And she just didn't feel like that was.
Super.
Great so this one didn't focus on treats. But it also didn't focus on.
Punishment it was. It was kind of it seemed unique to me.
Did you help your mom sign up for the previous.
Trainers.
Sort of, yeah, so.
I I helped her sign up for the ones at the San Diego Humane Society.
And she had paid for those
And.
She!
And the lady was nice.
Like it was fine, but there wasn't I. I was there when the training was going on, and.
Seem like there weren't a lot of
Immediate results. I guess.
Liliana. Sorry? I know you had a question.
You said, your mom is the kind of person that would need a a well trained but your sister isn't. I'm I'm just curious like. What? What are the main differences you see between the 2 of them that makes you say that.
Is it like their personalities, or what about them?
Yes, it's a great question. Good makes me think about my family dynamic. So I think, my mom is.
Very organized like. If you walk into her house like.
Everything I can show you guys. She lists her house on Airbnb so you can see it. It's like everything's in a very pristine spot. Everything is a certain way, like when I go to visit, like, if I'm watching TV.
I have to fold the blanket up.
Put it in, put it in. It's saying, like I can't leave blankets and pillows out. You know it's like.
She in order to and I and like.
You know, and I get it because we've talked about it. And it's just like in order for her to feel.
Relaxed in her space, and also she's retired.
You know she it's her 1st time owning her own house and being in her own house without kids or a husband, and so.
She feels like.
Okay, this is my time to live exactly how I want to live.
And so, yeah, so she's has a very pristine.
Space. So I think it's actually like a lot of it. Now I think about it has a lot to do with like her space, her home.
And then my little sister
Like I would equate her living style to like a hobbit like, you know, she kind of lives. She lives in Washington State.
She kind of lives in like this like.
The shire.
Little hut. Yeah, like, exactly. She's got a very shy vibe. There's like plants everywhere. There's like.
Stuff everywhere. It's it's beautiful, but it's very chaotic.
And like, it's a bit messy. So yeah, just kind of opposite ends of the spectrum, as far as like minimalist versus like Maximalist.
Types of living and like.
One being okay with like.
Chaos in their space.
And another one not.
Not so much, and I think also.
Yeah, just like.
Brothers, probably. Just yeah, more tolerant of mess, more tolerant of like accidents.
Destroying furniture stuff like that.
It's.
Got it so. Oh, go ahead, Lilian. Sorry.
Your sister, have children.
Nope.
No kids.
And is she a 1st time dog owner with the with the dog? She has right now.
Yeah,
Okay.
Yeah. She's
How old am I? She's 31.
So.
When you started looking up additional classes in May.
Where did you start? Did you get any referrals? Or did you start with the search online?
I tried to search online.
I.
I think I went. I think the thing I typed in was like best.
Dog Trainers.
In San Diego.
So just kind of seeing. Like, okay, what?
What are like the fancy dog trainers was kind of my thought. Like, you know, we've gone with like the Petco we've gone with the Humane Society. We've gone with the more affordable options. Those don't seem to be working so like.
What like? What are the dog trainers that the.
The.
Yeah.
Fancy people with these like fancy show dogs, and you know, and just like, what are they using to train their dogs with sort of the search hole, I went down.
And just to be clear what wasn't working up until then, because you'd had these multiple training sessions that had happened.
Yeah.
It sounds like you had alluded to certain behaviors that were persisting. But I just wanna make sure I understand.
Yeah. So I think,
Like.
I think one thing was not like.
She was barking at other dogs a lot like when she went to puppy school.
She is fine, she's friendly. She's the like.
The bell of the ball at puppy school, but then she would go. My mom used to go on really long parks down at
Mission Bay, which is this really beautiful area? It's 1 of the reasons why she bought her house.
But I had learned that she had actually stopped.
Doing those walks.
Because there are a lot of other dogs down there, and Cindy Lou would just like bark at.
All the dogs, and so she just sort of gave up walking down there. And I I started. That was affecting her.
Mental health, because like those.
Walks down by the bay would always make her feel better.
So that was one thing. She was also whining a lot every time my mom even just left the kitchen.
So my mom was starting to have to like stay in the kitchen all the time, just to avoid her from.
Avoid sending, from being anxious.
And then she'd also have like.
Accidents in the house, not all the time.
But like.
You know more often than.
Yeah.
Was okay with my mom, which means, like, even one accident, you know, is not okay with my mom. So
So yeah, that was.
Those were the 3, I think. Key.
Behaviors.
That that we're kind of.
Bothering my mom, the most.
Right. And was there a particular phone call or conversation where you're either on the call with her or you get off the call. And you're like, all right.
Time to get serious.
I'm Googling for fancy dog Trainers.
Yeah, so.
So well, there were 2. 1 was
One, was.
She told me that she had stopped going down to the bay for walks. I think that really had an impact on me.
Because that's a whole reason why she lives in San Diego is to get out and get that that beautiful scenery.
And then, and so that I think maybe start looking. But I think I really got serious.
When she was talking about.
I made a mistake.
I like. This is a bad idea to get a dog.
I don't know what to do, and a part of me like.
Thought that she may like give the dog.
Back, and that just completely broke my heart. I was like, we can't do that like.
Cindy Lou loves us. I love Cindy Lou. My mom loves Cindy Lou like that's just gonna like.
That's going to be traumatizing for everybody involved. So that's when I like. Became very serious about looking.
Got it, and and this search that you conducted were you.
It sounds like you spoke to your sister about it, and she was she against it? You said.
Yeah, kind of. I think my little sister was kind of like.
You know. Don't get involved.
If she gives away the dog, she gives away the dog, and.
You know.
Like. Don't spend a ton of money on.
On dog trainers and stuff
So she wasn't very encouraging of the of the purchase.
Was there anyone who was encouraging or supportive.
No, I think I kind of, went on a gut.
A gut instinct that, like this is something I had to do, and at least try cause. I think I would have.
I would have been mad at myself if I didn't.
Try to help help the situation.
Got it.
So.
We let Google take the wheel.
Yes, I did. Well, I let Google take the wheel.
What I'm trying to think. I.
I think I.
So I do
Like.
Natural stuff. I do holistic medicine. I'm I'm Vegan. And so there was one that popped up that was.
John's natural dog trainer and so just the word natural got me, I think, and so I I saw it, and I went to the site. But actually, before I even like start browsing the site, I went on, yelp so yelp was a part of my decision, making process to read reviews, because.
I think
When I'm making a decision on purpose, like I'll read the reviews on the site, but I don't necessarily trust them, so yelp is like a place where I feel like I can trust.
The reviews more so.
That's that's the one that caught my eye. I compared it to.
A couple of others. I even looked at one in Montana since we were going to Montana, but.
That one was a little scary to me, because it was for big dogs. It was like for cattle dogs, and they used the shoplers, which was very not cool with me.
So
That's.
Yeah. So it also, comparing to some of the other ones that I saw the more expensive fancier ones I saw.
This one stood out because they were very against using.
Like pun, like shock callers, or any sort of like harsh punishment.
Got it. Okay.
So you you landed on the right one from the yelp reviews.
And you.
You were aware of the price tag for the classes.
Yeah.
And and ultimately like, when you searched and you found it. Did you make the purchase in that same moment, or did it take you time to consider it.
Yeah. So it took me to consider it. I actually had 2 phone calls.
With them, before.
I made the purchase so.
1st phone call.
I talked.
I talked to the woman.
Asking about the different packages. I asked if, like, it could be customized like.
How customize the packages could get. I also asked about.
Their methods.
I talked to them a little bit about my mom.
And then the second time.
I called them. I just had more questions about their methodologies.
And also gave them a little bit of background on our story. How I got to this point.
Just to make sure that they would be also patient with my mom, too. As, and work with her.
Yeah.
To train the dog. So it's like.
I was also trying to see like, can you do a little like dog therapy with my mom to help my mom understand? Like the process of raising a dog, and the woman I spoke to was like really nice.
Very open, very understanding. I like that. They were.
That they would customize it so they would actually come to my mom's house, because that was another thing. My mom was.
Stressing about was like going to all these classes and trainings, was taking up a big part of her day.
So like. I like the fact that they came.
They would come to the house to to do the training.
And they did have a free evaluation session.
So.
Basically like I they did. So I gave my mom like in an envelope, a printout of the website. Their philosophy said, You know I'm getting this for you. They do a free.
Consultation, class.
And then, you know.
They wanna make sure they can work with the dog before they.
Sign anything.
So I didn't actually like make the purchase until after that 1st consultation class. But I was, you know, I gave her the President was like, I'm gonna make this purchase. If this looks like it's gonna work.
Great, and you ended up moving forward with it. And how did it go.
It's gone, really. Well, everything has.
Changed
My mom is so much happier. She sends me photos of the dog all the time, because that was one of the things that the the dog trainer said that this class really does. It is, it helps.
Bond, the owner to the dog as well, because, like.
That's really important for dogs to have.
An owner that they understand like and basically building a language between the 2. So they understand each other. And they've done that.
My mom actually called me the other day and said, You know, I'm just so grateful for this gift. It was such a thoughtful gift, and.
She's like, really. She's going back to Montana. Back to our cabin, and she's driving up with the dogs, and she's like.
Excited now. And she's like showing off the dog, and how well behaved the dog is to like her friends. And her friends are all impressed. So yeah, it's it was probably one of the best.
Purchases I've made in a while.
Wow! All right. Well, there's so much more I want to know, Annie, but I'm gonna call it there for the sake of time. That was fantastic. And what a great way to end the story.
So thank you for sharing.
Oh, good! Well, I hope I hope my answers were.
Were helpful in the example, was helpful.
Yeah, I was.
I don't know. What do you all think? Yes, do we? Did we learn some things.
Okay. Good.
Nope.
I was. Gonna say, we were so enthralled we never went game off on that one which we normally do love to just open it right now, for, like 2 or 3 people, were there any questions you guys had in your mind like, Oh, we should ask this.
Yeah.
Like I thought.
Share them, now.
I would love to know what your sister thinks about it now.
Well, my sister
I've.
I don't know.
I don't know if I've ever heard my sister say. Oh, you were right. So.
So I think I think she's happy, because when my mom is more calm, we're both.
More calm.
So I think she's she's happy that that my mom's not calling her complaining about the dog anymore.
But I think you know.
My my sister, I think, still sort of thinks. Oh, well.
You know we could have.
Figured this out without paying $1,200, but in my book.
I'm fine to part with that $1,200 for the for the peace of mind. It has brought our family so.
That's awesome.
Maybe one more question from the group.
I mean going forward. Are you anxious about like any potential relapses, or you know, what do you have on the back of your head. Now that you know the whole process is completed, then.
You know. Now you.
Of a different.
Circumstance, but you know what comes up in terms of like the consistency of the process.
Yeah, so.
One of the things I asked when I was researching was like.
How do you guys do as follow.
They offer
So they they part of the package comes with unlimited access to their dog training like.
Open sessions. So my mom could go to those sessions.
Talk to trainers, but then also you can buy one off classes. She actually hasn't finished the package yet, so she's only done 4 sessions. She's going to Montana.
Trying everything out, and then she's gonna do the last sessions.
When when she gets back. So like.
You can kind of spread it out.
So.
In my mind.
I feel like I've connected my mother with a problem solver, basically long term problem solver.
So.
If things do come up in the future, she can reach out to them.
Buy another one off class.
And just feel like she's.
Got someone in her corner that can help her.
Okay, so let's talk about the forces. Do you want.
Do you have? This slide that shows the forces a little bit more in depth than the one you put in the chat. Now.
Yes.
Like the black one.
Yes, I do. I'm gonna pull it up.
So remember, during the call, we wouldn't be on video.
This would be recorded just like it is right now I would be taking notes and trying to fill out the timeline. So then we'd go into this debrief.
So the 1st thing in the debrief would be like.
Okay, did we fill out the timeline? And for the sake of time, right now, I'm gonna skip that. But just know.
You guys should probably think in your own minds what you would put for each of these.
And then we get into the debrief. And we say, Okay, one. Are there any questions we wish? We would have asked that we need to like Clarify. It's okay to have to call the person back in the next few days. If you realize that you forgot to ask something. Or you guys kind of can't remember, or there's a discrepancy between, like, if Neil and I were having an intellectual disagreement like no, this is why she did it. It's okay to just call up the source of truth and say, Hey, we have one more question for you.
You know. What does your sister think now? Something like that.
So you go through and you start.
Plotting the forces.
So we're gonna do that together. I'll probably take like 2 people for each 1, 2, or 3 and I'll remind you what each one is, so we'll start with the ones that are pushing.
Any toward the new behavior.
So push and pull.
Are bringing you toward the new behavior. So let's start with push.
Push is like a pain that you should think of it.
Similar way. The pain doesn't have to be physical, but it should be something that makes you uncomfortable that pushes you toward the new solution.
So. Yep, Telitha, you have a push.
Yeah, it would be that she was receiving a lot of calls with her mom, complaining about the dog. And the mom was hyper, focusing on the negatives, and like another one could be that the mom's mental health was being affected, which, of course, as a byproduct, was also affecting Annie as well.
Yep, and I think that mental health was at like one of the final straws. Right? So I would even say like that. Put Annie into active looking.
Or maybe even deciding. That was like a really big one.
I think one of the push was.
2 cheaper classes didn't really work well.
Yeah. So the one.
So it pushed her into a more expensive but higher quality class.
Exactly just like in the mattress interview, right past, like prior experiences.
We'll kind of like make you go into a higher price if it if it didn't work out before completely.
There was also the specific event that.
Her mother didn't go used to the bay anymore, like.
It wasn't like 3 that she liked, but it wasn't occurring anymore.
And that, and like the push, was kind of like the worry that Annie felt on behalf of like her mom changing her lifestyle.
So like.
Seeing visible lifestyle changes for a loved one could be the push.
Float.
Yeah.
The fear of actually losing the dog like her mother returning, the dog.
That's huge.
And he said that she feared that would be traumatic for all of them, like all of the family members. That's a huge push. I don't want that to happen. I need to do something about it. That's so true.
So things are kind of different. Like every single interview. There will be like more heavily concentrated forces in one of the 4. So I would say this one was like a very heavy push interview, but.
I would challenge you guys, can anyone think of some polls.
So poll should be synonymous in your brain with like an allure. It should be something that allures you toward the new solution. You're not necessarily feeling pain. You're getting persuaded.
Yeah, sure.
Maybe because she was actually looking the natural treatments and the.
Not taking it painful and like.
Punishments.
Way of think education.
Actually loads her in.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely. No, I didn't mean to meet you accidentally.
That's okay.
Absolutely. So I was, gonna tell you guys, you can kind of see it would be so far fetched to just think of this off the top of your head, but through jobs to be done.
Veganism might be a way that this man needs to target customers. This natural dog trainer he would have had no idea. But maybe he needs to put.
Flyers, in vegan restaurants.
Like the connection would never be clear. But this jobs be done if if more patterns emerged. Of that, I was so interested in the fact that that identity, the Annie's made her interested in this training session.
Ur.
Yeah. The fact that she was connecting her mother with someone that could address any potential issues that might come. In addition to the.
Issue at.
10 to the.
Right. So she's reserving peace of mind for the future as well as today by that 12,000 that she's spending.
That's true. The allure of peace of mind is definitely huge. Here.
Morgan.
I don't know if this counts as a push or pull like it's just birthday like. Is that a pool like I need to get a present kind of thing like this would be a good one, a high end present.
It's true, like matter of circumstance, I think it depends. If you have a parent that gets upset when you don't buy them gifts, it might be a push like you're afraid, but if it.
Got to get a birthday gift. Otherwise it's going to be a problem. This.
It's, yeah.
Yeah, I would say, for any it sounded like from love. I don't know.
It felt it felt like a pull. But that was just. That's this is the debate we would have. We would, as team members go. What did you hear? I thought, that's a poll, right? I put that in the poll category. She was excited to get her mom something really nice for a 70th birthday. That sounds really sweet.
Someone else. Code. Nope, she's afraid like.
So.
Yeah.
To Lipa.
Maybe it's that they were offering these free evaluation.
Maybe it rings about.
And also like the long term problem solving. That's something that she was concerned about before is her mom and the dog trainer and the dog gonna get along. Well, is this program gonna work? Well, so having that free evaluation mitigates that fear.
I agree with that similar to the mattress interview. Right.
Like being able to have that. William.
And.
Yeah, I think just to add as well. That Annie also liked that it could be customized, and that they were willing to travel to the home. So there was. It kind of broke down friction as well.
Made it more convenient and hassle free for a mom.
Absolutely so convenience that really mattered to her.
Felice.
She also mentioned the like customization aspect, and I'm not sure if this is maybe the whole of this new solution, but it kind of gives a sense of control, I think, for a big amount of money like being able to customize your purchase really.
Making you feel like more comfortable with the presence.
Yeah, I would definitely say it was a poll. It was something that Annie found very alluring about the new solution.
Sure last poll.
Yup reviews.
There were many other people's experience that.
Made the new solution out even more.
Say that last part again. It kind of cut out.
Can you hear me now?
The app, reviews.
Yeah.
Oh, the yelp! Yes.
The positive real? Yeah.
Absolutely. That was a huge part of her determining this. So seeing those positive y'all purviews was a big deal.
Okay, so let's quickly move to the things that moved any away from the new behavior. So, keeping at business as usual, you see, the pink arrows are going toward the left side, so they're traditionally a little bit harder to recognize. But let's do habit. So habit is something you're sticking with status quo. You're used to what you're used to, what is maybe a habit that was keeping any at status quo.
Yeah, or.
I mean the opinion of her sister, although you know.
I would be inclined to.
A sister who's never admitting that I'm right. But.
You know.
Saying that, you know you shouldn't touch it like.
Leave them be. It's fine, like the dog, is there? But it's ultimately choice is a big habit of the present, I think, because, you know it's it's an external.
Like. It's not in your office of control, right? So you are doing something for someone. But it's affecting more than that person loan.
So I think they have. It is to not touch it, and then, you know, get out of any responsibility or repercussions that might.
I completely agree, the sister was saying. Stay with the status quo. It's not that big a deal like, just let it happen. Let's jump to anxiety just for the sake of time. There are probably some other habits we could pull out, but anxiety anxieties are fierce.
So any sort of fears that we're keeping Annie at bay. I remember a couple. Can you guys identify some of them that would keep her away from a new solution.
Yeah. Flow.
Yes. So she evaluated a couple of options where the dogs were punished, and sent a shock caller, or where they used too much of the treaty that didn't really work in the past, so I guess the fear of those type of things coming back and the dog being harmed.
Exact.
As one of them. Yeah.
I completely agree with that.
Dave.
Hmm.
Yeah, the fear that her mother would not adopt it like she would spend all this money, and her mom wouldn't actually take her up on it. And so she really liked the idea that they had a free evaluation and sold that to her mom.
Yes, that would be a huge waste. So that's like a worry in the back of your mind to spend all this money.
I completely agree.
Any other final anxieties.
Yeah, it says, here.
Dan also, in addition to that, if the class.
Don't go well.
Then.
Definitely, you'd end up in a worse position than the status. Go.
Given that there were other classes in the past, and.
It will definitely feel desperate if the classes didn't work.
Exactly. Yeah.
You guys did a great job. So I'm gonna stop it there. Obviously, that was like a 5 to 7 min debrief. It would be a lot longer. You would do at least 15 to 20 min, and you'd be able to derive a lot of insights from talking with your partner about what just happened, but I hope this was a great example of just like a a sneak peek of what's to come from the things you guys can derive in your interviews.
Yeah, to put things in perspective. That was about 35 min end-to-end, like when we started talking to Annie to having the debrief and wrapping it up. If you spend 35 min.
Getting to know 10 to 15 of your potential customers or existing customers, and you get to that level of fidelity with understanding their situation. And what's influencing.
Their decision, and what their needs are.
I think it's safe to say that you're gonna feel a lot more confident in what you're deciding to do to serve them and to find more. People like them.
Right, and make sure that they're happy and successful.
So so I hope that this is just a good initial reference for you to understand the potential power in depth.
That you can get to early on in your startup journey. Now, with your businesses.
Great.
Okay, before we break.
I wanna go over your toes with you before we leave.
So let me pull up somebody's to do list. I'll pull up.
So we've added a couple more. I want to make sure nobody has any questions. So the things you guys have left.
Remember the class roster perform and the welcome kit we're due on Wednesday. You should reach out to me and Chloe if you didn't get in either of these.
You're gonna wanna make sure you read that program handbook. You're gonna wanna upload your completed Pre work packet that's due on Wednesday. Once you complete it. You're going to book a goal setting call with Chloe, which is down here, and we have the link to do that.
This is your learning objective. So by next Wednesday you're going to want to have determined what you want to learn.
What you're hoping to gain from this round of jobs to be done, and that will directly inform your screening. So remember, I showed you this yesterday. You're gonna want to figure out your screening by next Friday, the earlier the better, so that you can start booking your 1st 10 Jtbd. Interviews like what we said here. So remember that you can't book them until Neil approves your screen criteria, and you might have to go back to the drawing board, so give yourself as much.
Time as possible. Fridays, just the absolute deadline.
List any additional team members that are. That might be part time that you'd like in your base camp project. So any sort of designers or devs that aren't.
Part of this text project can be in here to work with you.
Like, I said, book a goal setting. When you're done with your pre work packet, you're gonna want to read Bob messes book demand side sales by day. One. We linked it here for you.
It took me about 2 days, so it should be like a pretty quick read but make sure that you prioritize that, because we will be discussing it.
A lot in the coming weeks. And then the last thing this is new.
We've referenced financial modeling a lot. We're gonna have a very important financial modeling session by Neil's mentor, Troy, Hanako. He's like the king of financial modeling, but he is very strict.
So there's this pre work that needs to be done before week. One.
And.
He does not accept missions, and he also is someone that you want on his. On your side. He will be helping our program, probably more than other programs, because we're very close with him.
And Troy will scrutinize you if you did not get this in on time. So the deadline is 5 Eastern. On Sunday, September 8.th
So like a week and a half.
Make sure you meet that I just want to really emphasize the.
Like hard deadline here. There's not.
Just a little more Troy. He was the original managing director for Tech Star, Chicago.
And he's 1 of the most successful investors in the history of tech stars.
So he is substantial and wants to help, and has seen all the bad and all the good across.
Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of companies. So he's in our corner. But he is also a total, hard ass. So just be ready.
And he'll respond to you, even if you get it in on time. He's gonna respond to you. A pretty scrutinist response. And that's normal. So just be ready to have a thick skin. Also, we, said CEO, because the CEO should be responsible for the financial model. Even if you have someone on your team that is good at financial modeling and really likes it. You guys can do it together, but it is not recommended. And this is not how we do it here, where the CEO is not directly in charge, with hands.
On in the financial model. I know that's hard. I know a lot of our Ceos here don't want to do that.
But I challenge you. It needs to be you who submits this, and you need to have a hand in creating it.
This this is especially true.
If you expect at any point in the future that you would like to fundraise.
The any investor isn't like as an investor, you're not gonna bet on a founder or CEO.
Who doesn't understand the financials of their business.
Simple enough.
Oh, I'm muted any questions here on any of the twos before we break for Labor Day weekend.
Quick! Question. The.
Goal setting with Chloe. Does it have to be done before you submit the screening? Is that what you said, or they can be.
It's about the Pre Work packet. So your Pre work packet your goal setting packet that we sent you.
Last.
That's due on September 4.th
Once you finish that, you want to book a go sitting meeting with Chloe. You're gonna go through it.
Okay, but it has nothing to do with the the screening for the jobs to be done.
Those are separate.
Lots of things happening at once.
Good question, Morgan. Anything else?
Suppose I'm just wondering. Sorry. What's the what would be the timeline for conducting the interviews themselves?
Yeah, so.
Is this unexpected.
The sooner you can get your screening in and improve, the more the faster you can start conducting them.
Next week or on week. One you guys are gonna have a checkpoint presentation on Thursday of week, one where you let us know how many you've done so far. It's okay. If you've only done like 2 some people will maybe have done all of theirs. That's just a checkpoint. So there's no like hard deadline there. It's just we want you to have made some progress, and you can tell us what you've learned. And then the hard deadline for finishing your whole set is gonna be after mentor madness.
After tech week. You're going to be completing the Y before the Y, which is what Neil showed you from Base camp, which is like taking all of that and synthesizing it and showing us your insights, and you'll actually be presenting it in front of one of our.
Like best alumni, who did a great job with this when we're in person for week 6.
So that's kind of when it's gonna end.
But I would say the sooner the better, because some of you are gonna need to go back to the drawing board. Some will have to get more interviews. So a lot of people try to finish before mentor madness.
Cool thanks. I was just thinking like 10 days or something.
But.
Now you have. You have several weeks, but definitely don't let this go in the back burner, because once you get into mentor Mattis, it's going to be hard to juggle everything else. So use the time right now. That's why we start so early.
Yeah, and just to give you some more timeline guidance. When I've done jobs to be done, sprint with Bob.
And he's the best in the world. Okay, like, invented the thing. So like, just give you a reference point.
He gets them done in a week.
So.
We schedule the calls.
They start on Monday. The calls up by Wednesday or Thursday.
And we're finalizing things on Thursday and Friday.
With our insights and the patterns and everything. So the whole process can be done in about 5 days.
But that's when you know exactly what you're doing.
So I would give it a couple weeks.
Well.
Alright!
I hope you guys have a wonderful long weekend. We're done now, so take the rest of the day. Be off on Monday. We'll see you guys on Tuesday morning.
And any other questions that you have. Just send them to us. You can box us for anything urgent. We're pretty responsive there, but we won't really be on Base Camp for the next few days.
And we'll see you on Tuesday for project management, which is super exciting.
It's so great to meet you guys this week. Thanks for all your participation.
See ya.